the rainforests of Sumatra this female
are a Newton is 42 years old her third
child a six year old daughter is still
with her
orangs look after their children for
longer than any other primate except
ourselves it will take her nine years to
teach a youngster everything she needs
to know about this complex treetop world
[Music]
she must learned how to collect ants and
termites
[Music]
how to identify at least 200 kinds of
edible plants and how to avoid the
poisonous ones and how to charge when
fruit like this durian has ripened to
perfection
[Music]
a child must be able to judge which
branches can carry her weight
[Music]
and which insect nests are safe to raid
building up a complete guide to the
foods of the forest is a long process
[Music]
lessons of course aren't limited to food
there are other crucial skills she must
learn if she is to survive in the
treetops building a secure nest in which
to spend the night for example takes
years of practice and this is of course
a rain forest
so all orangs must learn how to make a
shelter early in their lives
[Music]
[Applause]
it rains almost every day so this
six-year-old has already had plenty of
practice she might live to be 50 years
old and if she too becomes a mother
she'll pass on all this expertise to her
own children
[Music]
[Applause]